# JacksonJanaye_CIS7_CourseProject

Author: Janaye Jackson

Date: 12/13/2022


### Project Description
This program is implemented using a self-created class called Vigenere. In this class there are three functions, one to create shift key and the others two to encrypt/decrypt messages. The function to create the shift key determines the ascii value of each letter in the key, subtracts the base value of A or a to tell how many letters need to be shifted and adds that number to a vector until the vector has the same number of elements as the letters in the message. The functions to encrypt/decrypt the message take the value in the vector and use those as the shift. Each value corresponds to a specific letter in the message. In the encrypt function, the shift key value and letter value are added together and the base value for a or A is subtracted. That number is then divided by 26 and the remainder of that value is added to the value of a or A to get the new letter. That letter is then added to a string that returns the encrypted message. The decrypt function is very similar to this but the arithmetic before the division is performed is reversed, so addition is subtraction and subtraction is addition. The main code just ask the user to pick an option and enter their message and shift key based on their option. 

### How to Use
User are first displayed with a menu. From the menu there are three choices, numbers 1-3 correspond to choices and user will be prompted to select one. Choice 1 and 2 will then prompt user to enter a message, choice 1 will prompt for a message to be encrypted and choice 2 will propmt for a message to be decrypted. Both choice 1 and 2 will then prompt user for the shift key. Encrypted/Decrypted message will then be outputed. If choice 3 is selected program will automatically end. 

#### Approaches
This project was approached in an algebraic way. Each letter correspond to a different value and that value is shifted based on values generated by shift key. Values are then changed back into characters for output. 
